# Presentation and Objectives of Miquella

Miquella is a path tracer project developped as a learning tool to experiment with different execution mediums 
and parallelisation methods/libraries. Its main focus is to provide a somewhat simple workload requiring heavy 
computation which can be parallelize either locally or distributed on multiple nodes. 

The early development of the project are focusing on creating a path tracer up and running. The book series [Ray Tracing in One Week End](https://github.com/RayTracing/raytracing.github.io)
provides an excellent base to create a simple path tracer which can be improved later on.

This projects aims at covering a wide array of parallization methods. These may include:
* SYCL, an open source standard to implement heterogeneous compute kernels
* CUDA, the goto library for GPU computation
* C++ threads as provided by the C++20 standard
* Kubernetes, an open source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications
* hpx, an open source library for concurrency and parallelism with support for both parallel and distributed applications
* whatever peaks interest 


# Compilation

## Linux

### Dependencies installations (Ubuntu 22.04)

```
sudo apt update

sudo apt install cmake
sudo apt install git
sudo apt install python3-pip

sudo apt install libgl-dev
sudo apt install libgl1-mesa-dev
sudo apt install libx11-xcb-dev libfontenc-dev libice-dev libsm-dev libxaw7-dev libxcomposite-dev libxcursor-dev libxdamage-dev libxext-dev libxfixes-dev libxi-dev libxinerama-dev libxkbfile-dev libxmu-dev libxmuu-dev libxpm-dev libxrandr-dev libxrender-dev libxres-dev libxss-dev libxt-dev libxtst-dev libxv-dev libxxf86vm-dev libxcb-render0-dev libxcb-render-util0-dev libxcb-xkb-dev libxcb-icccm4-dev libxcb-image0-dev libxcb-keysyms1-dev libxcb-randr0-dev libxcb-shape0-dev libxcb-sync-dev libxcb-xfixes0-dev libxcb-xinerama0-dev libxcb-dri3-dev uuid-dev libxcb-cursor-dev
sudo apt install libxcb-util-dev libxcb-util0-dev

pip3 install conan==1.*

# Only for this terminal
source ~/.profile

pip3 install fastapi uvicorn python-multipart sqlalchemy
```

### Building

```
# From the source
mkdir build
cd build
../run_cmake_script.sh
make -j8

# Test
src/MiquellaSDL
```

## Windows 

TODO

# Tag release

## 0.0.1

Base version of the project setting up the environment, conan, and building a simple GUI based on ImGUI and OpenGL. 
The GUI allows to display a texture for now automatically generated by the program but will become the host of the image 
generated by the rayrtracer.

## 0.0.2

Implement a naive path tracer following closely the implementation proposed in Raytracing in One Week End and a bit of 
Raytracing The Next Week End. The programs implement several keys concept classically found in any ray tracer: primitive shapes,
materials, scenes, camera types and a renderer. 

## 0.0.3

Implement a first parallelization method using threading. The implementation relies on the BS_poolthread library to parallelize 
the rendering main loop. Some additional modifications were done in order to remove bottlenecks when parallelizing.  
